---
layout: profile
title: Matthew

portrait: ""
name: Matthew Bedard
major: Auburn University Electrical Engineering
about: I enjoys solving problems and building things.
---
## My Wonderous Involvement with Literature

Reading literature is something that is mind expanding, where you always find something new in a good book that can change your perspective. In this analysis are some of my collected experiences with literature from the books I have read. One will have to begin with my accepting the teachings of literature, understanding, after that, how this has affected my thought process, and where I expect to see my interest with this art in the future.

This assessment is on my earliest experiences of reading literature, as they have had the most impact on the very core of my being. Yet only being the age of 21, this hopefully isn’t the final form that one would expect my consciousness to take. I used to not be too big into reading—I always thought of it like a chore, and sometimes it still feels that way. Nevertheless, I can’t say I haven’t enjoyed every minute of it and welcomed the impact on my life. The first time I had this change of heart was in my high school literature class when I read books such as In Cold Blood and Of Mice and Men. These books, one non-fiction and the other fiction, both have great power in the words held inside. Something about the stories expressed in them had me hooked. The second change occurred when my dad purchased some books he found important for any well-rounded person to have read. In a sense, these books were the cause of great change in the world and in myself. I remember The Prince, The Art of War, and many others. These sparked my interest in many different ways. Not all the books my father purchased were political; some were skeptical and inquisitive on the human condition such as “The Collected Poems of W.B Yeats”

This leads into the question of the effects on my life by indulging such literature. Every book I have the pleasure to read is like a portal: it takes me to the place and time held within, where I have the chance to experience things quite impossible in the physical world. In these books, the lessons and the emotions can almost be like you were there yourself. I have often found myself a changed person after reading a book. These changes may be life-altering, like those I have experienced from reading Truman Capote’s In Cold Blood. This novel was about the analysis of human thought and the changing cultures of the early 60’s through the mind a murderer. This novel forced me to take the perspectives of murderers and their victims, which, at the time, was something I have never done before. The experience from this novel opened my eyes to the perspectives of each and brought their own rationale into my own purview. Another book that greatly touched my life was Of Mice and Men. This novel had an impact on me because I related heavily with the two main characters—since I am the eldest brother of 3 younger siblings, I could understand George Milton, who had to take care of a mentally disabled adopted brother and the responsibilities that entails. This novel, through the characters’ actions, brought into perspective that the world may never understand you or your problems, but you may only have a limited time with those you love and to make the best of it. As for a poem, my changed perspective of war came from W.B Yates’ “An Irish Airman Foresees His Death”. This short poem had lead me to conclusion that even though we fight wars for people we do not love we also kill people we don’t hate. No matter the outcome of war, life for some people will have not change for better or for worse. All of these stories have had measurable effect on my life, which I can say has been very positive.

 The future is never certain, but what I can only hope for is that I will continue to find my self perusing more and more literary works. For instance, I recently read the story by Mark Twain The Private History of a Campaign That Failed which made me rethink my perspective of the Civil War and those who participated. Experiences like these are nothing to take lightly. I find great power in the written word, as it has the ability to spread ideas. I have a lot of work to do to catch up on hundreds of years of ever-evolving thought. I can only expect to come out a better person in the end.
